---
title: "GANonymization: A GAN-based Face Anonymization Framework for Preserving Emotional Expressions"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2023-5
abstract: "In recent years, the increasing availability of personal data has raised concerns regarding privacy and security. One of the critical processes to address these concerns is data anonymization, which aims to protect individual privacy and prevent the release of sensitive information. This research focuses on the importance of face anonymization. Therefore, we introduce GANonymization, a novel face anonymization framework with facial expression-preserving abilities"
date: 2023-01-01
venue: 'arXiv preprint arXiv:2305.02143'
paperurl: 'https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.02143'
citation: 'Hellmann, Fabio et al. "GANonymization: A GAN-based Face Anonymization Framework for Preserving Emotional Expressions." arXiv preprint arXiv:2305.02143. 2023'
---
In recent years, the increasing availability of personal data has raised concerns regarding privacy and security. One of the critical processes to address these concerns is data anonymization, which aims to protect individual privacy and prevent the release of sensitive information. This research focuses on the importance of face anonymization. Therefore, we introduce GANonymization, a novel face anonymization framework with facial expression-preserving abilities. Our approach is based on a high-level representation of a face which is synthesized into an anonymized version based on a generative adversarial network (GAN). The effectiveness of the approach was assessed by evaluating its performance in removing identifiable facial attributes to increase the anonymity of the given individual face. Additionally, the performance of preserving facial expressions was evaluated on several affect recognition datasets and outperformed the state-of-the-art method in most categories. Finally, our approach was analyzed for its ability to remove various facial traits, such as jewelry, hair color, and multiple others. Here, it demonstrated reliable performance in removing these attributes. Our results suggest that GANonymization is a promising approach for anonymizing faces while preserving facial expressions.

[Download paper here](https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.02143)

Recommended citation: Hellmann, Fabio et al. "GANonymization: A GAN-based Face Anonymization Framework for Preserving Emotional Expressions." arXiv preprint arXiv:2305.02143. 2023