---
title: "GestaltGAN: Synthetic photorealistic portraits of individuals with rare genetic disorders"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2024-9
excerpt: "The facial gestalt (overall facial morphology) is a characteristic clinical feature in many genetic disorders that is often essential for suspecting and establishing a specific diagnosis. For that reason, publishing images of individuals affected by pathogenic variants in disease-associated genes has been an important part of scientific communication. Furthermore, medical imaging data is also crucial for teaching and training deep-learning models such as GestaltMatcher. However, medical data is often sparsely available, and sharing patient images involves risks related to privacy and re-identification [...]"
date: 2024-01-01
venue: 'PrePrint'
paperurl: 'https://www.researchsquare.com/article/rs-4649064/latest'
citation: 'Krawitz, Peter et al. &quot;GestaltGAN: Synthetic photorealistic portraits of individuals with rare genetic disorders.&quot; PrePrint. 2024'
---
The facial gestalt (overall facial morphology) is a characteristic clinical feature in many genetic disorders that is often essential for suspecting and establishing a specific diagnosis. For that reason, publishing images of individuals affected by pathogenic variants in disease-associated genes has been an important part of scientific communication. Furthermore, medical imaging data is also crucial for teaching and training deep-learning models such as GestaltMatcher. However, medical data is often sparsely available, and sharing patient images involves risks related to privacy and re-identification. Therefore, we explored whether generative neural networks can be used to synthesize accurate portraits for rare disorders. We modified a StyleGAN architecture and trained it to produce artifical condition-specific portraits for multiple disorders. In addition, we present a technique that generates a sharp and detailed average patient portrait for a given disorder. We trained our GestaltGAN on the 20 most frequent disorders from the GestaltMatcher database. We used REAL-ESRGAN to increase the resolution of portraits from the training data with low-quality and colorized black-and-white images. To augment the model&apos;s understanding of human facial features, an unaffected class was introduced to the training data. We tested the validity of our generated portraits with 63 human experts. Our findings demonstrate the model&apos;s proficiency in generating photorealistic portraits that capture the characteristic features of a disorder while preserving patient privacy. Overall the output from our approach holds promise for various applications, including visualizations for ...
